---
layout: post
title: New Hardware
---

I have been using a Macbook Pro for 5 years. Coming from Windows based PCs, it has been a glorious experience. However, outside the elegant hardware and nicely polished operating system, I have mixed feels about the company. I am not writing this to share my personal dislike for Apple, but to share the reasons why I have decided to leave Macbooks behind. 

It starts with the latest iteration of the 15" Macbook Pro with the Touch Bar. Such a beautifully flawed machine. I don't know who this laptop was designed for. The keyboard is was upgrade to what is called a butterfly key and larger keys. The butterfly keys have a miniscule amount of travel. Even though this is a break from traditional keyboard keys, it is not the part of the keybard that makes the typing experience undesirable. Another contributor is how thin the keys are, which effects the shape of the keys. This in combination with the keys being oversized, allow minimal space between keys, makes navigating the keys inefficient at times. Countless times, I hit the wrong key by accident as there is little tolerance for mistakes. The shape of the keys don't provide any feedback if you have hit the centre of the key or not. All of these factors combined provide an experience that is not expected of Apple, considering the long streak of providing some of the best hardware in the industry.

The second "innovation" Apple put in the latest Macbook Pro iteration is the Touch Bar. So "innovative", but again, who is this designed for? A developer like myself, who depends on an escape key for almost everything. Likely not. My biggest grievance with the touchbar is how a basic workflow need to be halted to look down to locate the button you are looking for. Moving away from not having an escape key, if I need to use a function key, I have to look at the touch bar and find the "Fn" button. Optionally, I can use the "Fn" key on the keyboard, but still have to look down to locate the keys. This to due to the fact that the touch bar is flat. There is not tactile way to locate keys. And further more, that is not tactile way to know it you have pressed a key. On all the touch based devices we are used to, there is haptic feedback for this reason. A little vibration to indicate you have successfully pressed a button. Not Apple's Touch Bar. If I need to change brightness on my screen or keyboard, I have to press a tiny arrow key to expand the common function button. Change tracks on your music players, same thing. It is the one thing the makes my experience with the latest Macbook Pro unpleasant. I would not have minded the touchbar if the esc and function keys were kept and the touch bar was for ancillary use above that row. 

Lastly, what happened to the ports. Why was there a need to remove all the ports except one, sorry, two types of port. Forgot about the headphone jack. Actually, considering Apple's direction, I was quite surprised that the new Macbook Pro came with a headphone jack. This part of the new design really only effects the pocket book. Sombody is making money on dongles though. It truely is annoying. 

To wrap up this rambling, who is this laptop desinged for? Desingers? Business People? Engineers? Developers? It is not cler to me. From my experience it is the product of trying to build one piece of hardware for many demographics. But why? This is the part that makes loath the company with a net worth in the trillions, Why not provide more options to cover more demographics. Look at a Dell or Lenovo? Sure, they build crap for the lowest budget consumer all the way up to Macbook Pro killer hardware. I am not saying that is the direction Apple should go, but ther is a massive void between these manufacturer's. Apple reputation would not be damaged if they built anothe Macbook Pro for engineers and developers that enabled workflows that have been iterated over for years to be efficient as possible, only to be hindered by a company removing parts of the keyoard that are required. 

As of today, I have ordered a Lenovo Thinkpad X1 Extreme. Once I get this laptop, I will be installing Linux and moving on from Macbooks. I am very excited about this change, and can't wait to get my escape key back.


